you're entering the territory of an
amazing
but abandoned wildlife park the animal
cages are overgrown with grass
small houses have been left for a long
time
and cobwebs and mold are everywhere
you walk into a dark building and see a
green glow ahead
you approach and realize it's a large
water tank
there's old green water in it but you're
attracted
by the silhouette of a huge fish inside
you've just found a great white shark
its body is in a formaldehyde solution
keeping it almost perfectly preserved in
wildlife wonderland in australia ceased
its operations
all the animals were moved from there
but the shark
was forgotten in 2018
urban explorer luke mcpherson visited
this abandoned place and posted a video
of the embalmed shark
the video got millions of views and the
shark
got a name rosie
[Music]
since then the park has attracted many
tourists
unfortunately vandals were among them
the fish tank was damaged and graffiti
was painted on it
people demanded to save the unusual find
and a few months later when the shark
tank was almost destroyed
it was moved to another working
exhibition center
there they restored the tank and renewed
the liquid in it
so the shark could retain its appearance
the next abandoned place is much scarier
probably because of this it attracts
lots of visitors
we're in the czech republic in the small
village
of lukova it's very beautiful here
with small houses cozy streets and rich
nature
[Music]
among the trees you suddenly notice the
silhouette of an
old chapel before you go inside
you realize it's completely abandoned
you see old bricks with faded paint on
the walls
and a rusting metal roof it looks
a little creepy you make a step inside
if some travelers discovered this place
at night
they would run away screaming from what
they saw
inside there are patrons
in the chapel most of them are sitting
on benches
and some are standing they don't move
because they are plaster statues but the
most terrifying thing is
that each statue is covered with a white
sheet
in 1968 the chapel roof began to rot
eventually it collapsed and residents
stopped coming here in 2014
an artist made some plaster statues and
placed them here to make it seem as if
the building was haunted
this installation attracts tourists from
all over the world
which helps gather the money to restore
the chapel
we're in the u.s now driving along
vashon highway
there's a dense forest on both sides of
the road
you get to the bus stop and get out of
the car
to see the strange find you've heard
about you need to go into the forest
you wade through bushes mud trees
and there you are
at first you see nothing special but
then
you look up there's a rusty red bicycle
literally inside a tree
it's become a part of the forest the
wheels and handlebars stick out
and everything else is inside the trunk
it turns out that in 1954 a local boy
was given a bicycle
but he was not very happy with his gift
the tires were very thin
and hard and the handlebar looked like
it came from a child's tricycle
one day this boy was playing in the
woods with his friends
and only he had a bicycle when everyone
started to go home
the boy just left the bike by the tree
the tree continued to grow
and the bike became part of it
let's leave cold dark places and come
right to the center
of the southern california desert the
sun is very hot
and there's no one around only sand
dry brush and mountains are in the
distance
a couple of hours have passed you're
thirsty
the sun burns your skin and suddenly
you see water or is it a mirage
you approach in hopes it isn't
yes this is real water but it's not an
oasis
here in the middle of the desert there's
an unmarked swimming pool
what a pleasure it is to jump inside
it's called a social pool an artist
built it in the summer of 2014
absolutely anyone can use this pool but
not
everyone will be able to find it
unfortunately
there's only a carcass left of it today
abandoned places don't just hold creepy
and weird things
some finds can make the person who found
them
rich we're going to the pigall red light
district
in paris this is a residential area
and nothing looks abandoned you go into
one of these houses
you meet people at the entrance who
check their mail in the box
you go up the stairs and stop at the
door to a certain apartment
it looks dilapidated you open it and
step inside
what you see here reminds you of a
creepy scene from a haunted house movie
all the furniture and decorations are
not from this century
the whole apartment looks like an
antique
a thick layer of dust covers every inch
of this place
old creepy dolls and stuffed toys lie on
the tables and the floor add a
disturbing tune from a music box
and you have a full horror set you feel
like you've traveled a century back in
time
and in a sense it's true
the owner of the apartment moved out in
the 1940s
she left everything as it was the
apartment was left
untouched for 70 years it was discovered
in 2010 when people began to evaluate
the property of the apartment's owner
she lived somewhere else and didn't tell
anyone about the place
when appraisers opened the apartment
they found
a painting by the italian artist
giovanni boldini
which he created in the 19th century
this painting was sold for 2.5 million
dollars
now we go to another desert in namibia
here among the dunes not far from the
ocean coast
you find a dried-up lagoon and an
old sunken ship half buried in the sand
or rather what's left of it the age of
this portuguese vessel
is about 500 years
it originally sailed from lisbon in 1533
and disappeared near a namibian diamond
mining city
walking among the wreckage you can find
ship parts from those times
but the most interesting thing is a
chest
with gold coins the net worth of the
entire ship
along with the valuable treasure is
estimated
at over 12 million dollars the wreckage
was discovered by geologists
in 2008 but its full glory
was only uncovered eight years later
and now you're walking down new york
streets
passing a dark deserted alley where you
see some trash bins
you notice a painted canvas sticking out
of one of them
you take it out of the trash and it
turns out to be a painting
the image isn't very clear but it looks
beautiful
you decide a piece of art doesn't belong
in the trash
and take it home for the next four years
you try to find out something about this
painting and one day
on a website about antique stuff you
find out
that this painting is a missing art
masterpiece
worth a million dollars
this is what happened to a woman from
new york in 2003.
when she found the painting in the trash
she immediately
felt the power emanating from it the
woman learned
the painting was stolen from its owner
in 1989
she returned it and received fifteen
thousand dollars as a reward
the painting called trace personaes
was drawn by the mexican artist rufino
tamayo
in 1970 a collector bought this work of
art as a gift for his wife
but a few years later the painting was
stolen
while the couple was moving into a new
home
now let's finish our journey with the
most grandiose and large-scale
find we're
in turkey you've been living in an old
house for a very long time
and you want to redecorate the place you
throw out
all of your obsolete stuff and then
remember
you have an old basement you never
needed it before
but now you decide to turn it into a
room
you break down a wall and discover a
tunnel
that leads underground excited
you go there and realize the tunnel
doesn't just lead to a secret room
it leads to a colossal underground city
in 1963 a man from turkey
discovered an ancient city going down
as deep as 18 floors it could
accommodate
about 20 000 inhabitants livestock
and food supplies it's not just a maze
of tunnels
there is a chapel a school stables
kitchens and other attributes of
civilization
the city was founded in the byzantine
era over a thousand years ago
it was likely built as a shelter from
natural disasters and wars
the coolest detail though is that it's
not the only
underground town it adjoins many other
tunnels
that stretch for several miles